# Spot Instances

- an instance that uses spare EC2 capacity that is available for less than the On-Demand price.
- ideal for stateless, fault-tolerant, or flexible applications
- Big data, containerized workloads, CI/CD, HPC, image and media rendering, or test and dev workloads.

## Using Spot Instances

- first determine your maximum Spot price
- the instance will be provided as long as the Spot Price is below what you determine.
- if Spot price increases the instance will be stopped or terminated
- the Spot price depends on capacity, and region
- if Spot price goes up you have 2 minutes to decide whether you want to stop or terminate your instances.


## Spot Block

- stop your SI from being terminated even if the Spot price goes up.
- can be set for between 1-6 hours.


## Spot Instance Requests

- to get an SI you have to make a Spot Instance request that includes the desired number of instances, the instance type, the Availability Zone, and the maximum price that you are willing to pay per instance hour.
- to terminate an SI that was deployed using a persistent SI you will first have to cancel the Spot Request.

## Spot Fleet

- collection of SIs and On Demand (optional) instances launched based on criteria you define.
- attempts to launch the number of SIs and ODIs to meet the target capacity you specify in the Spot Fleet request.
- request is fulfilled if there is capacity available and the Spot Price is lower than what you're willing to pay.
- Spot Fleet will attempt to maintain its target capacity fleet within your budget in case your SIs are interrupted. 
- A Spot capacity pool is a set of unused EC2 instances with the same instance type (for example, m5.large), operating system, Availability Zone, and network platform. 
- you can have multiple pools and the fleet will choose the best way to implement based on the strategy you define. 
- allocation strategy for the Spot Instances in your Spot Fleet determines how it fulfills your Spot Fleet request from the possible Spot capacity pools represented by its launch specifications.
- The allocation strategies are,

1. *lowestPrice* - The Spot Instances come from the pool with the lowest price. This is the default strategy.
2. *diversified* - The Spot Instances are distributed across all pools.
3. *capacityOptimized* - The Spot Instances come from the pools with optimal capacity for the number of instances that are launching.
4. *InstancePoolsToUseCount* - The Spot Instances are distributed across the number of Spot pools that you specify. This parameter is valid only when used in combination with lowestPrice.