# Scaling EC2 Instances with Auto Scaling

## Auto Scaling Groups

- a collection of Amazon EC2 instances that are treated as a logical grouping for the purposes of automatic scaling and management.
- components of an Auto Scaling group,

1. *Template* - available launch templates or configurations.
2. *Networking and Purchasing options* - VPC, subnet settings, multi-AZ deployments, instance types (spot, on-demand, reserved)
3. *ELB Configuration* - register EC2 instances behind an LB. Auto Scaling will use the health checks from the ELB
4. *Scaling Policies* - minimum, maximum, and desired capacity. Ensure that you don't have too few or too many resources.
5. *Notifications* - send push-based notifications via AWS SNS.

## Concepts

- Minimum capacity - lowest amount of EC2 instances that must be running.
- Maximum capacity - highest number of EC2 instances when scaling happens.
- Desired capacity - the number if EC2 instances that must be ideally running now. If there are no scaling policies, or scheduled actions then AWS will maintain this number. This value must be greater than or equal to the minimum capacity or lower than or equal to the maximum capacity. 

- Warm-Up period - stops instances from being placed behind the LB as soon as they are bought up, failing the health check, and being terminated.
- Cooldown period - applicable for both creation and termination of EC2 instances. After your Auto Scaling group launches or terminates instances, it waits for a cooldown period to end before any further scaling activities initiated by simple scaling policies can start. 

## Scaling Types

1. **Manual Scaling** (Reactive)
-  you can change the size of an existing Auto Scaling group manually.
- either update the desired capacity of the Auto Scaling group, or update the instances that are attached to the Auto Scaling group.
- can be useful when automatic scaling is not needed or when you need to hold capacity at a fixed number of instances

2. **Dynamic Scaling** (Reactive)
- you define how to scale the capacity of your Auto Scaling group in response to changing demand
- a dynamic scaling policy instructs Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to track a specific CloudWatch metric and defines what actions to take when the associated CloudWatch alarm is in ALARM.
- EC2 Auto Scaling ensures you never go beyond the maximum or minimum size limits. 
- there are 3 types of dynamic scaling policies supported by Auto Scaling

i. *Target tracking scaling* - Increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a target value for a specific metric. 
ii. *Step Scaling* - Increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a set of scaling adjustments, known as step adjustments, that vary based on the size of the alarm breach.
iii. *Simple Scaling* - Increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a single scaling adjustment.

3. **Predictive Scaling**
- AWS uses its ML algorithms to determine when you'll need to scale
- well suited if you have cyclical traffic patterns, recurring on-and-off workload patterns, or apps that take a long time to initialize causing latency when scaling out. 
- capacity requirements are predicted using historical data from CloudWatch.
- you should have at least 24 hours worth of historical data to start forecasting.
- Predictive scaling finds patterns in CloudWatch metric data from the previous 14 days to create an hourly forecast for the next 48 hours.
- can also use in *forecast only* mode so you can evaluate the forecast before any scaling happens.
- after evaluating you can switch policy to *forecast and scale* mode. 