# EBS Overview

- Storage volumes you can attach to EC2 instances
- Simply the hard drive in the cloud (not a single disk tho, EBS spans across multiple disks in multiple DCs in an AZ)
- Can be used to create a file system, run an OS, run a DB, store data, and install apps etc.
- it is designed for mission-critical workloads
- it is highly available since it's replicated with a single AZ.
- it highly scalable. You can change the volume type and increase capacity with no downtime or performance impact to your live systems.
- following volume types: General Purpose SSD, Provisioned IOPS SSD, Throughput Optimized HDD, and Cold HDD are available.

## EBS Volume Types

### SSD-based Volumes

***General Purpose SSD*** 

- balance price and performance for a wide variety of transactional workloads.
- ideal for use cases such as boot volumes, medium-size single instance databases, and development and test environments.
- volume size can be 1GB-16TB
- there are two types - *gp2* and *gp3*

1. *gp2*
- 99.8-99.9% durability.
- 3 IOPS per GB, maximum of 16000 IOPS per volume.
- volumes smaller than 1 TB can also burst up to 3,000 IOPS.
- MAX throughput/volume is 250MB/s. 
- your throughput depends on the volume size
- single digit millisecond latency

2. *gp3*
- 99.8-99.9% durability.
- baseline performance of 3,000 IOPS and 125 MiBps at any volume size.
- customers can also scale up to 16,000 IOPS and 1,000 MiBps for an additional fee.
- ideal for apps that need high performance at low cost
- example: virtual desktops, medium sized single instance databases such as Microsoft SQL Server, Cassandra, MySQL, and Oracle DB, Hadoop analytics clusters, low-latency interactive apps.
- single digit millisecond latency

***Provisioned IOPS SSD***

- designed to meet the needs of I/O-intensive workloads that are sensitive to storage performance and consistency.
- provide a consistent IOPS rate that you specify when you create the volume.

1. *io1*
- 99.8-99.9% durability.
- up to 64000 IOPS per volume
- 50 IOPS per GB
- up to 1000MB/s of throughput per volume
- Volumes can be 4GB-16TB
- Use if you need more than 16000 IOPS
- single digit millisecond latency
- designed for critical, I/O intensive database and application workloads, as well as throughput-intensive database and data warehouse workloads, such as HBase, Vertica, and Cassandra.
- To achieve the limit of 64,000 IOPS and 1,000 MB/s throughput, the volume must be attached to an EC2 instance built on the AWS Nitro System.

2. *io2*
- 99.999% durability (highest)
- up to 64000 IOPS per volume
- up to 500 IOPS per GB
- up to 1000MB/s of throughput per volume
- Volumes can be 4GB-16TB
- single digit millisecond latency

- To achieve the limit of 64,000 IOPS and 1,000 MB/s throughput, the volume must be attached to an EC2 instance built on the AWS Nitro System.
- designed for business-critical, I/O intensive database applications, such as SAP HANA, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, and IBM DB2 that have high durability requirements.

3. *io2 Block Express*
- 99.999% durability
- up to 256,000 IOPS per volume
- up to 1000 IOPS per GB
- up to 4000MB/s of throughput per volume
- sub-millisecond latency
- Volumes can be between 4GB-64TB 
- 
### HDD-based Volumes

***Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)***

- 99.8-99.9% durability.
- low cost, throughput optimized HDD volume 
- baseline throughput of 40 MB/s per TB
- include the ability to burst up to 250 MB/s per TB
- maximum throughput of 500 MB/s per volume
- volume size can be 125GB-16TB
- ideal for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads with large datasets and large I/O sizes
- such as MapReduce, Kafka, log processing, data warehouse, and ETL workloads.
- cannot be a boot volume

***Cold HDD (sc1)***

- lowest cost per GB from all EBS volumes
- ideal for less frequently accessed workloads with large, cold datasets.
- 99.8-99.9% durability
- baseline throughput of 12 MB/s per TB
- can burst up to 80 MB/s per TB
- maximum throughput of 250 MB/s per volume
- cannot be a boot volume
