# AWS Key Management Service

-  is a managed service that makes it easy for you to create and control the cryptographic keys use to protect your data.
- integrates well with other AWS services- S3, EC2, EBS, Route 53, RDS, EKS, ECR etc.
- provides centralized control over the life cycle and permissions of your keys.
- create keys and control who can manage them as well as who can use them. 
- supports multi-region keys.

## AWS KMS Keys

- previously known as customer master keys.
- logical representation of a cryptographic key. 
- contains metadata (keyID, key spec, key usage, creation date etc.)
- contains key material that is used to encrypt and decrypt data.
- you cannot extract, export, view, delete, or manage this key material. But you can delete the KMS Key itself.
- supports both symmetric and asymmetric KMS. 

## HSM

- cryptographic operations in AWS KMS are carried out in the backend by a fleet of hardware security modules (HSMs).

## Key Types

1. **Customer managed keys**
- MS keys that you create are customer managed keys.
- keys in your AWS account that you create, own, and manage.
- to identify use `DescribeKey` and check if value for `KeyManager` is `CUSTOMER`

2. **AWS managed keys**
- keys in your account that are created, managed, and used on your behalf by an AWS service integrated with AWS KMS
- unless you are required to control the encryption key, an AWS managed key is a good choice.
- have permission to view keys, view key policies, and audit their use in CloudTrail
- you cannot use AWS managed keys in cryptographic operations directly; the service that creates them uses them for you.
- automatically rotated every year. You cannot change this rotation schedule.

3. **AWS Owned Keys**
- collection of KMS keys that an AWS service owns and manages for use in multiple AWS accounts
- AWS owned keys are not in your account
- some AWS services let you choose an AWS owned key or a customer managed key
- completely free of charge

## Key Rotation

- when automatic key rotation is enabled, KMS generated new crypto material for the KMS key every year.
- previous versions of crypto material are stored permanently to decrpy any data encrypted with it. 
- key material is not deleted until you delete the KMS key.
- you cannot request a particular version of the key material, the decryption will happen transparently.
- automatic key rotation is not supported in *asymmetric KMS keys, HMAC KMS keys, KMS keys in custom stores,* and *KMS keys with imported materials*. 
- *Disabled KMS keys* and *keys pending deletion* are also not rotated. 

## Access Control

- access to keys are manged by policies
- keys use resource-based policies
- each key must have exactly one key policy
- on one, not even root, has any permissions to a KMS key until explicitly allowed.
- Unless the key policy explicitly allows it, you cannot use IAM policies to allow access to a KMS key. 
- key policies are regional.