# Amazon SQS

## Overview

- message queuing service that allows asynchronous processing of work.
- One resource will write a message to the SQS queue, and then another resource will retrieve that message from SQS whenever it is ready.
- messages are not instantly sent or processed by the receiver unlike a direct connection or an ELB.
- helps to loose couple since it doesn't maintain a direct connection
- but instead SQS acts as a buffer
- queues aren't bidirectional. You will need a second queue.

## SQS Settings

- **Delivery delay**- messages that are delivered to the queue will be made invisible to the receiver for a set amount of time. Default is 0.
- **Message size**- can be up to 256 KB of text in any format.
- **Encrypt**- encrypted in transit by default, but you can add at-rest.
- **Message retention**- messages are purged. Default is 4 days; can be set between 1 min to 14 days.
- **Short polling**- default. The back-end component continuously checks for messages in the queue by making API calls. Burns CPU usage, and API calls are charged.
- **Long polling**- the back-end component makes a request to check for messages and wait.
- **Queue depth**- as messages back up the queue can get large. The queue depth can be used to auto scale the processing EC2 instances to handle all the data. (monitored via CloudWazth alarms)
- **Visibility Timeout**- a period of time during which Amazon SQS prevents other consumers from receiving and processing the message. (30 seconds by default). If consumer fails to process within the timeout period the message becomes available again for processing in the queue. 

## Dead-letter Queue (DLQ)

- messages that can't be processed successfully can be configured to be sent from the source queues to a DLQ.
- AWS SQS doesn't create DLQ(s) by default. We have to configure it ourselves.
- the dead-letter queue of a FIFO queue must also be a FIFO queue.
- the dead-letter queue of a standard queue must also be a standard queue.
- dead-letter queues must reside in the same region as the other queues that use it.