# S3 Overview


## S3 Basics

- provides **secure**, **durable**, **highly scalable** object storage.
- allows storing and retrieving of **ANY** amount of data from anywhere on the web at a very low cost. (**unlimited storage**)
- objects as large as 5TB can be uploaded.
- manages data as objects rather than file systems or data blocks
- can be used to upload and download any type of files
- cannot be used to run databases or operating systems
- S3 Buckets have a universal namespace. Each S3 bucket has a globally unique name.
- S3 bucket URL format is:
	` https://bucket-name.s3.region.amazonaws.com/key-name `
	ex: https://customer-data-02.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/ralphie.jpg


## Key-Value Store

**Key**- the file name of the object that is being stored
**Value**- the data itself (byte sequence)
**Version ID**- keeps track of multiple versions of the same object
**Meta data** - data about the data you're storing (ex: content-type, last-modified etc.)


## Availability and Durability

- S3 is highly available
- depending on the tier data availability can range from 99.95%-99.99%
- S3 is also highly durable- 99.999999999%


## Characteristics

- **Storage Tiers**- different storage classess for different use cases.
- **Lifecycle Management**- rules can be defined to automatically move objects to cost effective storage classes or delete objects after a period of time. 
- **Versioning**- all versions of an object can be stored and retrieved, even deleted ones.


## Data Security

- **Server-side encryption**- encrypt objects when they are stored in the bucket
- **Access Control Lists**- defines which AWS accounts or groups are allowed what type of access. Can be applied to individual objects stored in a bucket.
- **Bucket Policy**- specify which actions are denied or allowed (ex: Alice is allowed to PUT but not DELETE objects) 

*The difference between S3 ACLs and Bucket Policies is that the latter can only be applied bucket-wide. You cannot apply bucket policies to individual objects that are in the bucket unlike S3 ACLs.*


## Data Consistency

- **Strong Read-After-Write consistency**- after a successful write the latest version of the object can be immediately read.
- Immediately after a successful write, a list operation on the bucket will display the latest objects immediately.


