# S3 Storage Classes

## S3 Standard
- default storage class
- high availability (99.99%) and high durability- 11 nines (99.9999999%)
- data is stored across at least 3 AZs.
- designed for frequent access
- suitable for most workloads like static websites, content distribution, mobile and gaming apps, and big data analytics.

## S3 Standard- Infrequent Access (IA)
- designed for infrequently accessed data
- however data can be accessed rapidly (within milliseconds) when needed
- data is stored redundantly across at least 3 AZs.
- AWS charges a retrieval fee 
- use cases include storing long term backups and disaster recovery files that might need to be accessed quickly.
- availability is 99.9% and durability is 11 nines.

## S3 One-Zone- IA
- data is stored only in one AZ (maybe multiple facilities)
- data is less redundant to physical losses in the AZ.
- same durability as S3 Standard- IA but less availability (99.5%)
- ideal for long-lived, infrequently accessed, non critical data
- also good for creating object replicas when setting up S3 Cross-region replication (CRR)

## S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval
- used for archiving data that is rarely accessed but requires milliseconds retrieval.
- Per GB retrieval fees apply
- Durability is 11 9s and availability is 99.9% (same as S3 Standard- IA)
- Higher data access costs than S3 Standard- IA

## S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval
- Use for archives where portions of the data might need to be retrieved in minutes.
- objects must first be restored before they can be accessed.
- Per GB retrieval feels apply
- has a minimum storage duration period of 90 days
- can be accessed in 1-5 minutes using expedited retrieval.
- can retrieve objects using bulk retrieval in as little as 5-12 hours.
- durability is 11 9s and availability when restored is 99.99%

## S3 Glacier Deep Archive
- Use for archiving data that rarely needs to be accessed.
- minimum storage duration period of 1 80 days.
- lowest cost storage option
- data needs to be restored before retieving
- durability is 11 9s and availability is 99.99% after restoration

## S3 Intelligent-Tiering
- automatically moves data into the most cost-effective access tier base on usage frequency.
- no performance-impact, retrieval fees, or operational overhead.
- milliseconds latency and high throughput performance for all frequently, infrequently, and rarely accessed data.
- ideal for any workload but suggest you use it for use cases where you are not sure or the access frequency is unpredictable.
- durability is 11 9s and availability is 99.9%