# Elastic File System (EFS)

- managed NFS that can be mounted on many EC2 instances and even on-premise resources.
- can work with EC2 instances in multiple AZs
- highly, available, and scalable, however it is expensive.
- uses NFSv4 protocol
- compatible with Linux-based AMIs
- Windows not supported yet.
- utilizes encryption at rest using KMS
- file system scales automatically as you add files to it
- pay per use
- can support 1000s of concurrent connections
- can handle up to 10Gbps in throughput
- can scale to petabytes


## Performance and Throughput Modes 

Two performance modes,

- **General Purpose** - ideal for general computing storage and latency-sensitive workloads like web serving environments, CMS, home directories, and general file sharing.
- **Max I/O** - better for use cases that need higher throughput and ops per second than file systems ops latency. Ex: big data, media processing

And two throughput modes,

- **Bursting Throughput** 
- default throughput mode
- file system throughput is proportional to the file system size
- maximum throughput depends on the Amazon EFS region

- **Provisioned Throughput**
- good for apps that have a relatively constant throughput
- in here you specify the throughput of your file system 
- You are charged for the amount of throughput you provision that is in excess of the file system's base throughput rate based on the amount of storage if your file system were using Bursting Throughput mode
- if its reversed then you will automatically use Bursting Throughput mode.

**NOTE**: *you can change a file system's throughput mod, with the restriction that you can make only one restricted change in a 24-hour period.Restricted actions are- hanging a file system's throughput mode, and reducing the amount of provisioned throughput in Provisioned Throughput mode.*


## EFS Storage Classes
- *EFS Standard* - Frequently accessed data requiring the highest durability (11 9's) and availability (99.99%). Spans across at least 3 AZs.
- *EFS Standard–Infrequent Access (IA)* - Long lived, infrequently accessed data requiring the highest durability (11 9's) and availability (99.99%). Spans across at least 3 AZs. Per GB retrieval fees may apply.
- *EFS One Zone* - Frequently accessed data that doesn't require highest levels of durability (11 9's) and availability (99.90%). Data is stored in one AZ.
- *EFS One Zone-IA* - Long lived, infrequently accessed data that doesn't require highest levels of durability (11 9's) and availability (99.90%). Data is stored in one AZ. Per GB retrieval fees apply.

- EFS comes with life cycle management capabilities as well
- you can set it up so you can move your data from one tier to another.
- To use the EFS Standard-IA and One Zone-IA you must enable the Amazon EFS life cycle management feature.

## Use Cases for EFS

- Content Management Systems
- Web Server Pools