# EC2 Overview

- secure, virtual, scalable VMs hosted in AWS
- pay for what you use economic model
- no wasted computing capacity. You can grow and shrink the server as per the requirement.
- can be deployed within minutes.


## Pricing Options

### On-Demand (ODI)

- pay by the second or hour, depending on the type of instance you run.
- you pay only for the seconds your instance is in a "running" state
- no upfront payments or long-time commitments
- typical use cases are applications with shirt-term, unpredictable, spiky workloads that can't be interrupted.
- also good for applications that are being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.


### Reserved Instance (RI)

- saves up to 72%
- perfect for applications with steady state or predictable workloads
- or for applications that have a specific capacity requirement
- with RIs you have to pay for the term regardless of usage time.
- payments can be made in three ways: *full upfront*, *partial upfront* (remainder billed at a discounted hourly rate), *no upfront* (billed at a discounted hourly rate for entire term)
- can be purchased for one year or three year commitments (highest discount is 3 year option)
- do not renew automatically. Once term is ended your EC2 will be charged On-Demand rates
- two types: standard and convertible
- standard RIs can be modified but cannot be exchanged for another instance
- convertible RIs can be modified and also exchanged for another instance of equal or greater value
- scheduled RIs 

### Spot Instances (SI)

- instances created off unused AWS capacity at a discount of up to 90% compared to ODI. Pricing changes with supply and demand.
- you can request an SI from this unused capacity along with a maximum price per hour amount
- the Spot price is the current price of an SI per hour
- AWS activates your SI when the maximum price per hour amount that you're willing to pay ***exceeds the spot price*** and ***if capacity is available***
- AWS will stop, terminate, or hibernate your SI if EC2 needs capacity, if the spot price exceeds the maximum price per hour you're willing to pay, or demand for SIs increase.
- a spot interruption notice is sent 2 minutes before the SI is interrupted
- very cost effective if your apps are flexible about running times, and can be allowed to be interrupted.
- use cases are data analysis, image renderings, background processing, and optional tasks. 
- a good strategy is to combine on-demand instances with spot instances 

### Dedicated Instances (DI)

- EC2 instances that run in a VPC on hardware that is dedicated to a single customer.
- even if a single payer account has different AWS account the instances are separate at the hardware level.
- DIs ***may share hardware resources with other non-DIs of the same AWS account.***
- a DI backed with an EBS volume doesn't run on single tenant hardware.
- DI use cases are compliance and regulatory requirements, or licensing that doesn't support multi-tenancy or cloud services.
- **special licensing requirements may call for the use of DI** 
- can be purchased as on-demand or reserved.