# EC2 Placement Groups

Placement groups can be used to influence the placement of interdependent EC2 instances to meet the needs of your workloads. 
There are 3 placement strategies

1. Cluster 

- instances are grouped in a single AZ
- can span peered VPCs in the same Region.
- used by apps that need low network latency 
- instances can enjoy a high per-flow throughput limit
- recommended for applications that benefit from low network latency, high network throughput, or both.
- recommended when the majority of the network traffic is between the instances in the group.
- only certain instance types can be placed in cluster placement groups
- it is recommended that you Use a single launch request to launch the number of instances that you need in the placement group.
- it is recommended that you use the same type for all instances in a placement group.
- If you receive a capacity error when launching an instance in a placement group that already has running instances, stop and start all of the instances in the placement group, and try the launch again. Starting the instances may migrate them to hardware that has capacity for all of the requested instances.

2. Partition

- each partition placement group has its own set of racks
- each rack has its own set of networking and power sources
- multiple EC2 instances can be launched in a partition.
- instances in a partition do not share racks with the instances in the other partitions
- the goal is to isolate the impact of hardware failures in your applications
- can have partitions in multiple Availability Zones in the same Region.
- maximum limit of 7 instances per partition
- can be used to deploy large distributed and replicated workloads, such as HDFS, HBase, and Cassandra, across distinct racks.

3. Spread

- instances are placed on distinct underlying hardware.
- instances have its own networking and power source.
- recommended for applications that have a small number of critical instances that should be kept separate from each other.
- reduces the risk of simultaneous failures that might occur when instances share the same racks.
- suitable for mixing instance types or launching instances over time.
- can span multiple Availability Zones in the same Region.
- can have a maximum of seven running instances per Availability Zone per group.
- Dedicated instances not supported.
- use case would be spreading out your primary, secondary, and backup DBs or other individual critical EC2 instances. 