# Spot Instances

- an instance that uses spare EC2 capacity that is available for less than the On-Demand price.
- ideal for stateless, fault-tolerant, or flexible applications
- Big data, containerized workloads, CI/CD, HPC, image and media rendering, or test and dev workloads.

## Using Spot Instances

- first determine your maximum Spot price
- the instance will be provided as long as the Spot Price is below what you determine.
- if Spot price increases the instance will be stopped or terminated
- the Spot price depends on capacity, and region
- if Spot price goes up you have 2 minutes to decide whether you want to stop or terminate your instances.


## Spot Block

- stop your SI from being terminated even if the Spot price goes up.
- can be set for between 1-6 hours.


## Spot Instance Requests

- to get an SI you have to make a Spot Instance request that includes the desired number of instances, the instance type, the Availability Zone, and the maximum price that you are willing to pay per instance hour.
- to terminate an SI that was deployed using a persistent SI you will first have to cancel the Spot Request.

## Spot Fleet

- collection of SIs and On Demand (optional) instances.
- attempts to launch the number of SIs and ODIs to meet the target capacity you specify in the Spot Fleet request.
- request is fulfilled if there is capacity available and the Spot Price is lower than what you're willing to pay.
- Spot Fleet will attempt to maintain its target capacity fleet in case your SIs are interrupted. 